signalfx-agent/agent_docs/observers/ecs.md, before:


<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/observer-page.md.tmpl --->

# ecs

 Queries the [ECS Task Metadata Endpoint version 2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-metadata-endpoint-v2.html) for running containers.

The Smart Agent needs to run in the same task with the containers to be
monitored to get access to the data through ECS task metadata endpoint.

## Configuration from Labels
You must put at least one special label to identify an exposed port on your Docker
containers in the ECS task definition since ECS metadata does not contain any port
information. You can either specify all of the configuration in container labels,
or you can use the more traditional agent configuration with discovery rules and
specify configuration overrides with labels.

The config labels are of the form `agent.signalfx.com.config.<port
number>.<config_key>: <config value>`.  The `<config value>` must be a
string in a container label, but it will be deserialized as a YAML value to
the most appropriate type when consumed by the agent.  For example, if you
have a Redis container and want to monitor it at a higher frequency than
other Redis containers, you could have an agent config that looks like the
following:

```
observers:
 - type: ecs
monitors:
 - type: collectd/redis
   discoveryRule: container_image =~ "redis" && port == 6379
   auth: mypassword
   intervalSeconds: 10
```

And then launch the Redis container with the label:

`agent.signalfx.com.config.6379.intervalSeconds`: `1`

This would cause the config value for `intervalSeconds` to be overwritten to
the more frequent 1 second interval.

You can also specify the monitor configuration entirely with Docker labels
and completely omit monitor config from the agent config.  With the agent
config:

```
observers:
 - type: ecs
```

You can then launch a Redis container with the following labels:

 - `agent.signalfx.com.monitorType.6379`: `collectd/redis`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.6379.auth`: `mypassword`

Which would configure a Redis monitor with the given authentication
configuration.  No Redis configuration is required in the agent config file.

The distinction is that the `monitorType` label was added to the Docker
container.  If a `monitorType` label is present, **no discovery rules will
be considered for this endpoint**, and thus, no agent configuration can be
used anyway.

### Multiple Monitors per Port
If you want to configure multiple monitors per port, you can specify the
port name in the form `<port number>-<port name>` instead of just the port
number.  For example, if you had two different Prometheus exporters running
on the same port, but on different paths in a given container, you could
provide labels like the following:

```
 - `agent.signalfx.com.monitorType.8080-app`: `prometheus-exporter`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.8080-app.metricPath`: `/appMetrics`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.monitorType.8080-goruntime`: `prometheus-exporter`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.8080-goruntime.metricPath`: `/goMetrics`
```

The name that is given to the port will populate the `name` field of the
discovered endpoint and can be used in discovery rules as such.  For
example, with the following agent config:

```
observers:
 - type: ecs
monitors:
 - type: prometheus-exporter
   discoveryRule: name == "app" && port == 8080
   intervalSeconds: 1
```

And given docker labels as follows (remember that discovery rules are
irrelevant to endpoints that specify `monitorType` labels):

 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.8080-app.metricPath`: `/appMetrics`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.8080-goruntime.metricPath`: `/goMetrics`

Would result in the `app` endpoint getting an interval of 1 second and the
`goruntime` endpoint getting the default interval of the agent.


Observer Type: `ecs`

[Observer Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/observers/ecs)

## Configuration

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `metadataEndpoint` | no | `string` | The URL of the ECS task metadata. Default is http://169.254.170.2/v2/metadata, which is hardcoded by AWS for version 2. (**default:** `http://169.254.170.2/v2/metadata`) |
| `labelsToDimensions` | no | `map of strings` | A mapping of container label names to dimension names that will get applied to the metrics of all discovered services. The corresponding label values will become the dimension values for the mapped name.  E.g. `io.kubernetes.container.name: container_spec_name` would result in a dimension called `container_spec_name` that has the value of the `io.kubernetes.container.name` container label. |




## Endpoint Variables

The following fields are available on endpoints generated by this observer and
can be used in discovery rules.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---  | ---  | ---         |
| `container_name` | `string` | The first and primary name of the container as it is known to the container runtime (e.g. Docker). |
| `ip_address` | `string` | The IP address of the endpoint if the `host` is in the from of an IPv4 address |
| `network_port` | `string` | An alias for `port` |
| `private_port` | `string` | The port that the service endpoint runs on inside the container |
| `public_port` | `string` | The port exposed outside the container |
| `alternate_port` | `integer` | Used for services that are accessed through some kind of NAT redirection as Docker does.  This could be either the public port or the private one. |
| `container_command` | `string` | The command used when running the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_id` | `string` | The ID of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_image` | `string` | The image name of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_labels` | `map of string` | A map that contains container label key/value pairs. You can use the `Contains` and `Get` helper functions in discovery rules to make use of this. See [Endpoint Discovery](../auto-discovery.html#additional-functions). |
| `container_names` | `list of string` | A list of container names of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_state` | `string` | The container state, will usually be "running" since otherwise the container wouldn't have a port exposed to be discovered. |
| `discovered_by` | `string` | The observer that discovered this endpoint |
| `host` | `string` | The hostname/IP address of the endpoint.  If this is an IPv6 address, it will be surrounded by `[` and `]`. |
| `id` | `string` |  |
| `name` | `string` | A observer assigned name of the endpoint |
| `orchestrator` | `integer` |  |
| `port` | `integer` | The TCP/UDP port number of the endpoint |
| `port_labels` | `map of string` | A map of labels on the container port. You can use the `Contains` and `Get` helper functions in discovery rules to make use of this. See [Endpoint Discovery](../auto-discovery.html#additional-functions). |
| `port_type` | `string` | TCP or UDP |

## Dimensions

These dimensions are added to all metrics that are emitted for this service
endpoint.  These variables are also available to use as variables in discovery
rules.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `container_image` | The image name (including tags) of the running container |
| `container_name` | The primary name of the running container -- Docker containers can have multiple names but this will be the first name, if any. |

Commit message:

jenkins: Release Smart Agent docs for release v4.14.0

signalfx-agent/agent_docs/observers/ecs.md, after:


<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/observer-page.md.tmpl --->

# ecs

 Queries the [ECS Task Metadata Endpoint version 2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-metadata-endpoint-v2.html) for running containers.

The Smart Agent needs to run in the same task with the containers to be
monitored to get access to the data through ECS task metadata endpoint.

## Configuration from Labels
You must put at least one special label to identify an exposed port on your Docker
containers in the ECS task definition since ECS metadata does not contain any port
information. You can either specify all of the configuration in container labels,
or you can use the more traditional agent configuration with discovery rules and
specify configuration overrides with labels.

The config labels are of the form `agent.signalfx.com.config.<port
number>.<config_key>: <config value>`.  The `<config value>` must be a
string in a container label, but it will be deserialized as a YAML value to
the most appropriate type when consumed by the agent.  For example, if you
have a Redis container and want to monitor it at a higher frequency than
other Redis containers, you could have an agent config that looks like the
following:

```
observers:
 - type: ecs
monitors:
 - type: collectd/redis
   discoveryRule: container_image =~ "redis" && port == 6379
   auth: mypassword
   intervalSeconds: 10
```

And then launch the Redis container with the label:

`agent.signalfx.com.config.6379.intervalSeconds`: `1`

This would cause the config value for `intervalSeconds` to be overwritten to
the more frequent 1 second interval.

You can also specify the monitor configuration entirely with Docker labels
and completely omit monitor config from the agent config.  With the agent
config:

```
observers:
 - type: ecs
```

You can then launch a Redis container with the following labels:

 - `agent.signalfx.com.monitorType.6379`: `collectd/redis`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.6379.auth`: `mypassword`

Which would configure a Redis monitor with the given authentication
configuration.  No Redis configuration is required in the agent config file.

The distinction is that the `monitorType` label was added to the Docker
container.  If a `monitorType` label is present, **no discovery rules will
be considered for this endpoint**, and thus, no agent configuration can be
used anyway.

### Multiple Monitors per Port
If you want to configure multiple monitors per port, you can specify the
port name in the form `<port number>-<port name>` instead of just the port
number.  For example, if you had two different Prometheus exporters running
on the same port, but on different paths in a given container, you could
provide labels like the following:

```
 - `agent.signalfx.com.monitorType.8080-app`: `prometheus-exporter`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.8080-app.metricPath`: `/appMetrics`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.monitorType.8080-goruntime`: `prometheus-exporter`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.8080-goruntime.metricPath`: `/goMetrics`
```

The name that is given to the port will populate the `name` field of the
discovered endpoint and can be used in discovery rules as such.  For
example, with the following agent config:

```
observers:
 - type: ecs
monitors:
 - type: prometheus-exporter
   discoveryRule: name == "app" && port == 8080
   intervalSeconds: 1
```

And given docker labels as follows (remember that discovery rules are
irrelevant to endpoints that specify `monitorType` labels):

 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.8080-app.metricPath`: `/appMetrics`
 - `agent.signalfx.com.config.8080-goruntime.metricPath`: `/goMetrics`

Would result in the `app` endpoint getting an interval of 1 second and the
`goruntime` endpoint getting the default interval of the agent.


Observer Type: `ecs`

[Observer Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/observers/ecs)

## Configuration

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `metadataEndpoint` | no | `string` | The URL of the ECS task metadata. Default is http://169.254.170.2/v2/metadata, which is hardcoded by AWS for version 2. (**default:** `http://169.254.170.2/v2/metadata`) |
| `labelsToDimensions` | no | `map of strings` | A mapping of container label names to dimension names that will get applied to the metrics of all discovered services. The corresponding label values will become the dimension values for the mapped name.  E.g. `io.kubernetes.container.name: container_spec_name` would result in a dimension called `container_spec_name` that has the value of the `io.kubernetes.container.name` container label. |




## Endpoint Variables

The following fields are available on endpoints generated by this observer and
can be used in discovery rules.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---  | ---  | ---         |
| `container_name` | `string` | The first and primary name of the container as it is known to the container runtime (e.g. Docker). |
| `has_port` | `string` | Set to `true` if the endpoint has a port assigned to it.  This will be `false` for endpoints that represent a host/container as a whole. |
| `ip_address` | `string` | The IP address of the endpoint if the `host` is in the from of an IPv4 address |
| `network_port` | `string` | An alias for `port` |
| `private_port` | `string` | The port that the service endpoint runs on inside the container |
| `public_port` | `string` | The port exposed outside the container |
| `alternate_port` | `integer` | Used for services that are accessed through some kind of NAT redirection as Docker does.  This could be either the public port or the private one. |
| `container_command` | `string` | The command used when running the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_id` | `string` | The ID of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_image` | `string` | The image name of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_labels` | `map of string` | A map that contains container label key/value pairs. You can use the `Contains` and `Get` helper functions in discovery rules to make use of this. See [Endpoint Discovery](../auto-discovery.html#additional-functions). For containers managed by Kubernetes, this will be set to the pod's labels, as individual containers do not have labels in Kubernetes proper. |
| `container_names` | `list of string` | A list of container names of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_state` | `string` | The container state, will usually be "running" since otherwise the container wouldn't have a port exposed to be discovered. |
| `discovered_by` | `string` | The observer that discovered this endpoint |
| `host` | `string` | The hostname/IP address of the endpoint.  If this is an IPv6 address, it will be surrounded by `[` and `]`. |
| `id` | `string` |  |
| `name` | `string` | A observer assigned name of the endpoint. For example, if using the `k8s-api` observer, `name` will be the port name in the pod spec, if any. |
| `orchestrator` | `integer` |  |
| `port` | `integer` | The TCP/UDP port number of the endpoint |
| `port_labels` | `map of string` | A map of labels on the container port. You can use the `Contains` and `Get` helper functions in discovery rules to make use of this. See [Endpoint Discovery](../auto-discovery.html#additional-functions). |
| `port_type` | `string` | TCP or UDP |
| `target` | `string` | The type of the thing that this endpoint directly refers to.  If the endpoint has a host and port associated with it (most common), the value will be `hostport`.  Other possible values are: `pod`, `container`, `host`.  See the docs for the specific observer you are using for more details on what types that observer emits. |

## Dimensions

These dimensions are added to all metrics that are emitted for this service
endpoint.  These variables are also available to use as variables in discovery
rules.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `container_id` | The container id of the container running this endpoint. |
| `container_image` | The image name (including tags) of the running container |
| `container_name` | The primary name of the running container -- Docker containers can have multiple names but this will be the first name, if any. |
