signalfx-agent/agent_docs/observers/host.md, before:


<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/observer-page.md.tmpl --->

# host

 Looks at the current host for listening network endpoints.
It uses the `/proc` filesystem and requires the `SYS_PTRACE` and
`DAC_READ_SEARCH` capabilities so that it can determine what processes own
the listening sockets.

It will look for all listening sockets on TCP and UDP over IPv4 and IPv6.


Observer Type: `host`

[Observer Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/observers/host)

## Configuration

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pollIntervalSeconds` | no | `integer` |  (**default:** `10`) |




## Endpoint Variables

The following fields are available on endpoints generated by this observer and
can be used in discovery rules.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---  | ---  | ---         |
| `command` | `string` | The full command used to invoke this process, including the executable itself at the beginning. |
| `ip_address` | `string` | The IP address of the endpoint if the `host` is in the from of an IPv4 address |
| `network_port` | `string` | An alias for `port` |
| `discovered_by` | `string` | The observer that discovered this endpoint |
| `host` | `string` | The hostname/IP address of the endpoint.  If this is an IPv6 address, it will be surrounded by `[` and `]`. |
| `id` | `string` |  |
| `name` | `string` | A observer assigned name of the endpoint |
| `port` | `integer` | The TCP/UDP port number of the endpoint |
| `port_type` | `string` | TCP or UDP |

## Dimensions

These dimensions are added to all metrics that are emitted for this service
endpoint.  These variables are also available to use as variables in discovery
rules.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `pid` | The PID of the process that owns the listening endpoint |

Commit message:

jenkins: Release Smart Agent docs for release v4.14.0

signalfx-agent/agent_docs/observers/host.md, after:


<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/observer-page.md.tmpl --->

# host

 Looks at the current host for listening network endpoints.
It uses the `/proc` filesystem and requires the `SYS_PTRACE` and
`DAC_READ_SEARCH` capabilities so that it can determine what processes own
the listening sockets.

It will look for all listening sockets on TCP and UDP over IPv4 and IPv6.


Observer Type: `host`

[Observer Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/observers/host)

## Configuration

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pollIntervalSeconds` | no | `integer` |  (**default:** `10`) |




## Endpoint Variables

The following fields are available on endpoints generated by this observer and
can be used in discovery rules.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---  | ---  | ---         |
| `command` | `string` | The full command used to invoke this process, including the executable itself at the beginning. |
| `has_port` | `string` | Set to `true` if the endpoint has a port assigned to it.  This will be `false` for endpoints that represent a host/container as a whole. |
| `ip_address` | `string` | The IP address of the endpoint if the `host` is in the from of an IPv4 address |
| `network_port` | `string` | An alias for `port` |
| `discovered_by` | `string` | The observer that discovered this endpoint |
| `host` | `string` | The hostname/IP address of the endpoint.  If this is an IPv6 address, it will be surrounded by `[` and `]`. |
| `id` | `string` |  |
| `name` | `string` | A observer assigned name of the endpoint. For example, if using the `k8s-api` observer, `name` will be the port name in the pod spec, if any. |
| `port` | `integer` | The TCP/UDP port number of the endpoint |
| `port_type` | `string` | TCP or UDP |
| `target` | `string` | The type of the thing that this endpoint directly refers to.  If the endpoint has a host and port associated with it (most common), the value will be `hostport`.  Other possible values are: `pod`, `container`, `host`.  See the docs for the specific observer you are using for more details on what types that observer emits. |

## Dimensions

These dimensions are added to all metrics that are emitted for this service
endpoint.  These variables are also available to use as variables in discovery
rules.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `pid` | The PID of the process that owns the listening endpoint |
