signalfx-agent/agent_docs/observers/k8s-kubelet.md, before:


<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/observer-page.md.tmpl --->

# k8s-kubelet

 Discovers service endpoints running on the same node
as the agent by querying the local kubelet instance.  It is generally
recommended to use the [k8s-api](./k8s-api.md) observer because
authentication to the local kubelet can be more difficult to setup, and also
the kubelet API is technically not documented for public consumption, so
this observer may break more easily in future K8s versions.


Observer Type: `k8s-kubelet`

[Observer Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/observers/kubelet)

## Configuration

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pollIntervalSeconds` | no | `integer` | How often to poll the Kubelet instance for pod information (**default:** `10`) |
| `kubeletAPI` | no | `object (see below)` | Config for the Kubelet HTTP client |


The **nested** `kubeletAPI` config object has the following fields:

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `url` | no | `string` | URL of the Kubelet instance.  This will default to `http://<current node hostname>:10255` if not provided. |
| `authType` | no | `string` | Can be `none` for no auth, `tls` for TLS client cert auth, or `serviceAccount` to use the pod's default service account token to authenticate. (**default:** `none`) |
| `skipVerify` | no | `bool` | Whether to skip verification of the Kubelet's TLS cert (**default:** `true`) |
| `caCertPath` | no | `string` | Path to the CA cert that has signed the Kubelet's TLS cert, unnecessary if `skipVerify` is set to false. |
| `clientCertPath` | no | `string` | Path to the client TLS cert to use if `authType` is set to `tls` |
| `clientKeyPath` | no | `string` | Path to the client TLS key to use if `authType` is set to `tls` |
| `logResponses` | no | `bool` | Whether to log the raw cadvisor response at the debug level for debugging purposes. (**default:** `false`) |




## Endpoint Variables

The following fields are available on endpoints generated by this observer and
can be used in discovery rules.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---  | ---  | ---         |
| `container_name` | `string` | The first and primary name of the container as it is known to the container runtime (e.g. Docker). |
| `ip_address` | `string` | The IP address of the endpoint if the `host` is in the from of an IPv4 address |
| `network_port` | `string` | An alias for `port` |
| `private_port` | `string` | The port that the service endpoint runs on inside the container |
| `public_port` | `string` | The port exposed outside the container |
| `alternate_port` | `integer` | Used for services that are accessed through some kind of NAT redirection as Docker does.  This could be either the public port or the private one. |
| `container_command` | `string` | The command used when running the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_id` | `string` | The ID of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_image` | `string` | The image name of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_labels` | `map of string` | A map that contains container label key/value pairs. You can use the `Contains` and `Get` helper functions in discovery rules to make use of this. See [Endpoint Discovery](../auto-discovery.html#additional-functions). |
| `container_names` | `list of string` | A list of container names of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_state` | `string` | The container state, will usually be "running" since otherwise the container wouldn't have a port exposed to be discovered. |
| `discovered_by` | `string` | The observer that discovered this endpoint |
| `host` | `string` | The hostname/IP address of the endpoint.  If this is an IPv6 address, it will be surrounded by `[` and `]`. |
| `id` | `string` |  |
| `name` | `string` | A observer assigned name of the endpoint |
| `orchestrator` | `integer` |  |
| `port` | `integer` | The TCP/UDP port number of the endpoint |
| `port_labels` | `map of string` | A map of labels on the container port. You can use the `Contains` and `Get` helper functions in discovery rules to make use of this. See [Endpoint Discovery](../auto-discovery.html#additional-functions). |
| `port_type` | `string` | TCP or UDP |

## Dimensions

These dimensions are added to all metrics that are emitted for this service
endpoint.  These variables are also available to use as variables in discovery
rules.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `container_image` | The image name (including tags) of the running container |
| `container_name` | The primary name of the running container -- Docker containers can have multiple names but this will be the first name, if any. |
| `container_spec_name` | The short name of the container in the pod spec, **NOT** the running container's name in the Docker engine |
| `kubernetes_namespace` | The namespace that the discovered service endpoint is running in. |
| `kubernetes_pod_name` | The name of the running pod that is exposing the discovered endpoint |
| `kubernetes_pod_uid` | The UID of the pod that is exposing the discovered endpoint |

Commit message:

jenkins: Release Smart Agent docs for release v4.14.0

signalfx-agent/agent_docs/observers/k8s-kubelet.md, after:


<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/observer-page.md.tmpl --->

# k8s-kubelet

 **DEPRECATED** Discovers service endpoints running on
the same node as the agent by querying the local kubelet instance.  It is
generally recommended to use the [k8s-api](./k8s-api.md) observer because
authentication to the local kubelet can be more difficult to setup, and also
the kubelet API is technically not documented for public consumption, so
this observer may break more easily in future K8s versions.


Observer Type: `k8s-kubelet`

[Observer Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/observers/kubelet)

## Configuration

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pollIntervalSeconds` | no | `integer` | How often to poll the Kubelet instance for pod information (**default:** `10`) |
| `kubeletAPI` | no | `object (see below)` | Config for the Kubelet HTTP client |


The **nested** `kubeletAPI` config object has the following fields:

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `url` | no | `string` | URL of the Kubelet instance.  This will default to `http://<current node hostname>:10255` if not provided. |
| `authType` | no | `string` | Can be `none` for no auth, `tls` for TLS client cert auth, or `serviceAccount` to use the pod's default service account token to authenticate. (**default:** `none`) |
| `skipVerify` | no | `bool` | Whether to skip verification of the Kubelet's TLS cert (**default:** `true`) |
| `caCertPath` | no | `string` | Path to the CA cert that has signed the Kubelet's TLS cert, unnecessary if `skipVerify` is set to false. |
| `clientCertPath` | no | `string` | Path to the client TLS cert to use if `authType` is set to `tls` |
| `clientKeyPath` | no | `string` | Path to the client TLS key to use if `authType` is set to `tls` |
| `logResponses` | no | `bool` | Whether to log the raw cadvisor response at the debug level for debugging purposes. (**default:** `false`) |




## Endpoint Variables

The following fields are available on endpoints generated by this observer and
can be used in discovery rules.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---  | ---  | ---         |
| `container_name` | `string` | The first and primary name of the container as it is known to the container runtime (e.g. Docker). |
| `has_port` | `string` | Set to `true` if the endpoint has a port assigned to it.  This will be `false` for endpoints that represent a host/container as a whole. |
| `ip_address` | `string` | The IP address of the endpoint if the `host` is in the from of an IPv4 address |
| `network_port` | `string` | An alias for `port` |
| `private_port` | `string` | The port that the service endpoint runs on inside the container |
| `public_port` | `string` | The port exposed outside the container |
| `alternate_port` | `integer` | Used for services that are accessed through some kind of NAT redirection as Docker does.  This could be either the public port or the private one. |
| `container_command` | `string` | The command used when running the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_id` | `string` | The ID of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_image` | `string` | The image name of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_labels` | `map of string` | A map that contains container label key/value pairs. You can use the `Contains` and `Get` helper functions in discovery rules to make use of this. See [Endpoint Discovery](../auto-discovery.html#additional-functions). For containers managed by Kubernetes, this will be set to the pod's labels, as individual containers do not have labels in Kubernetes proper. |
| `container_names` | `list of string` | A list of container names of the container exposing the endpoint |
| `container_state` | `string` | The container state, will usually be "running" since otherwise the container wouldn't have a port exposed to be discovered. |
| `discovered_by` | `string` | The observer that discovered this endpoint |
| `host` | `string` | The hostname/IP address of the endpoint.  If this is an IPv6 address, it will be surrounded by `[` and `]`. |
| `id` | `string` |  |
| `name` | `string` | A observer assigned name of the endpoint. For example, if using the `k8s-api` observer, `name` will be the port name in the pod spec, if any. |
| `orchestrator` | `integer` |  |
| `port` | `integer` | The TCP/UDP port number of the endpoint |
| `port_labels` | `map of string` | A map of labels on the container port. You can use the `Contains` and `Get` helper functions in discovery rules to make use of this. See [Endpoint Discovery](../auto-discovery.html#additional-functions). |
| `port_type` | `string` | TCP or UDP |
| `target` | `string` | The type of the thing that this endpoint directly refers to.  If the endpoint has a host and port associated with it (most common), the value will be `hostport`.  Other possible values are: `pod`, `container`, `host`.  See the docs for the specific observer you are using for more details on what types that observer emits. |

## Dimensions

These dimensions are added to all metrics that are emitted for this service
endpoint.  These variables are also available to use as variables in discovery
rules.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `container_id` | The container id of the container running this endpoint. |
| `container_image` | The image name (including tags) of the running container |
| `container_name` | The primary name of the running container -- Docker containers can have multiple names but this will be the first name, if any. |
| `container_spec_name` | The short name of the container in the pod spec, **NOT** the running container's name in the Docker engine |
| `kubernetes_namespace` | The namespace that the discovered service endpoint is running in. |
| `kubernetes_pod_name` | The name of the running pod that is exposing the discovered endpoint |
| `kubernetes_pod_uid` | The UID of the pod that is exposing the discovered endpoint |
